%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
\section{Topology of books of I-bundles}
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%

In this section we establish basic definitions and facts about books of
I-bundles and quasi-Fuchsian surfaces contained inside them.

Recall that we are considering possible pared structures $P$ on $M$ a convex
hyperbolic 3-manifold. Our goal is to find a surface $S \cin M$ such that

\begin{equation}\label{E:qf}
S \text{ is closed immersed $\pi_1$-injective, and $\pi_1P_k \cap \pi_1S = 1$
for each component $P_k$ of $P$} \tag{QF}
\end{equation}

Note that since we haven't fixed a basepoint, these subgroups are really only
defined up to conjugacy (that is, they're sets of free homotopy classes) - what
we're saying is they fail to intersect for an arbitrary choice of conjugacy
class for each subgroup. This corresponds to multiples of the parabolic curves
being freely homotopic into the immersed image of the given surface

\begin{defn}

An \emph{$I$-bundle} is a fiber bundle with fiber $I=[0,1]$, and base space
a compact surface with boundary. In this paper we adopt the convention that all
$I$-bundles are oriented. The boundary of an $I$-bundle $I to B to Si$
decomposes into the \emph{side boundary} $\pi^{-1}(\bd Si)$ and the
\emph{binding boundary} $cup \bd \pi^{-1}(x)$. Note that the binding boundary
is a collection of disjoint annuli. The reason for these terms is the following
definition.

A \emph{book of $I$-bundles} is a 3-manifold obtained from the following
construction. Let sB be a collection of I-bundles, and sC a collection of solid
tori. Attach the I-bundles to the solid tori by attaching some (or all) of the
binding boundary components to disjoint annuli in the boundaries of the solid
tori.  If we let sA be the union of glued annuli in the resulting manifold, our
manifold can be written as $M=sB cup_sA sC$. Note that by construction each
component of sA is properly embedded, 2-sided, and incompressible in M.

\end{defn}

% cite/ref Morgan or Thurston or Culler-Shalen (or Ian's work?) for this def

Intuitively, if we take a physical book with thick pages and imagine bending it
in a circle so its top and bottom are identified, the spine becomes a solid
torus.  If we also attach each page along its top and bottom, the pages become
thickened annuli, attached to the spine at one end. This manifold can be built
from the above construction. Take $sC$ to be a single solid torus, and $sB$ to
be a union of thickened annuli, one for each page of the book. Glue one gluing
annulus of each component of $sB$, and glue them all to parallel longitudinal
annuli in $\bd sC$.

Therefore, in keeping with the "book" terminology, we will generally refer to
the components of sB as \emph{pages}, the components of sC as \emph{spines},
and the components of sA as \emph{bindings} or \emph{binding annuli}.
Furthermore, we'll say that M is \emph{fully bound} if \emph{all} the binding
boundary components are glued. For reasons we'll see later, the books of
I-bundles that we want to consider will satisfy this criterion.

Algebraically, a book of I-bundles corresponds to a particularly simple graph
of groups. The graph is bipartitie, and one side of the partition (the spines)
are just copies of $Z$.

In this paper we impose the following standard conditions on a book of
$I$-bundles, to avoid elementary or degenerate cases.

\begin{enumerate}

\item The underlying manifold is a compact connected orientable hyperbolic
3-manifold.

\item Each page is an I-bundle over a surface with boundary of negative Euler
characteristic.  That is, no base surface is a sphere, projective plane, disk,
Mobius strip, or annulus.

\end{enumerate}

Let's briefly explain why. Obviously we want M to be compact connected
orientable hyperbolic, as this is the general case we're studying (Kleinian
manifolds). If M were nonorientable we could reduce to the orientable double
cover.

Each page's base surface must have at least one boundary component to glue to
in order for M to be connected. We don't want to consider base surfaces which
are disks.  Observe that each page which is a copy of $S0,1$ means that that
page and its attached spine form a 3-manifold with a finite-sheeted cover by
a ball (we can arrange things so that in the cover, the $S0,1$ attaching map
only traverses the longitude once, and we get a thickened disk).  This means
that we'll have finite order summands in our group, which correspond to
elliptic pieces, for instance lens spaces, in the JSJ decomposition. These
cases are not hyperbolic.

%TODO
\textbf{TODO explain Mobius strips / annuli with "big bad loops" idea which
breaks our book of I-bundles reduction theorem.}

We first make the following simple observation.

prop

Let $M$ be a book of $I$-bundles, and $M'$ to $M$ be a finite-sheeted covering
space.  Then $M'$ is also a book of $I$-bundles.

proof

This is straightforward. Lift the spines and pages of $M$ to obtain spines and
pages of $M'$. Lift the gluing annuli of $M$ to gluing annuli of $M'$.

end proof

Let's look at the boundary components of a book of $I$-bundles. First, we'll
need a couple more simple definitions.

defn

Let M be a book of I-bundles, and C a spine in M.  The \emph{valence} v(C) is
the number of binding annuli that intersect C or, equivalently, that are
contained in $\bd C$.

Let A be a binding annulus in M. Note that A lies in the boundary of exactly
one spine $C_A$. The \emph{degree} of A is the geometric intersection number
i(A,D), where D is a meridian disk of $C_A$. That is, it's the minimal number
of components of A cap D as we properly isotope $D cin C_A$ and $A cin bd C_A$.

In fact, note that all binding annuli in a given spine C must have the same

enddefn

We make a few observations.

Note that since every hyperbolic 3-manifold is aspherical, by elementary
obstruction theory any injective map pi1S to pi1M is induced by a pi1-injective
map S to M.
% TODO cite Long-Reid, p11

Furthermore, by minimal surface theory, we can guarantee that any pi1-injective
surface in a hyperbolic 3-manifold is homotopic to an immersed surface.
A surface which is not immersed will contradict minimality.
% TODO cite Neumann p1

In what follows we'll speak only of pi1-injective surfaces, or possibly surface
subgroups. But it is important to note that in this situation those are the
same thing, and can be chosen to be immersed as well.

lemma (The Covering Lemma, as I actually use it)

Let phi: S to S' be a proper pi1-injective map of compact connected oriented
surfaces with boundary, and suppose that S is not a 2-sphere.  Then phi is
homotopic to a finite-sheeted covering map.  Note that the converse holds more
generally - that is, any finite-sheeted covering is a proper pi1-injective map.

proof

For the forward direction, we can apply minimal surface theory to perturb phi
via homotopy rel boundary to an immersion. It's straightforward to ensure that
phi is a local homeomorphism on boundary curves. Now think of int(S') as being
embedded as a totally geodesic core subsurface of a Fuchsian group quotient of
hyperbolic 3-space.  Then as we pull phi(int(S)) cin int(S')  to minimality its
image will necessarily remain in int(S'), as it's totally geodesic.  Since it
is connected and not a sphere, it can't shrink down to nothing. Since it's
properly embedded, the boundary components of S correspond to local maps of
cusps into cusp tubes of the thickened int(S') and must remain fixed on the
same cusp as we pull phi(int(S)) to a minimal surface. Hence the boundary
components of S do not move under this homotopy. The result is an immersion
produced via a homotopy rel boundary.

Then since phi is a proper immersion between manifolds of the same dimension,
it's a local homeomorphism on boundary and interior neighborhoods, and
therefore a covering map. It must be finite-sheeted because preimages of points
are discrete sets because it's a covering, and S is compact, so it follows that
point fibers are finite sets.

The converse follows from elementary covering space theory. As in the above
note, we can use minimal surface theory to make that proper pi1-injective map
into an immersion.

lemma (surface decomposition lemma)

Let M be a book of I-bundles, and S immerse M be a pi1-injective map, where
S is a connected closed surface.  Then, we can place S in minimal position with
respect to M such that:

(1) for each page B, S cap B is a finite-sheeted cover of the page core surface
(that is, if B = Si x I, S is a finite-sheeted cover of Si.

(2) for each spine C, S cap C is a union of essential annuli.

(3) the page covers and spine annuli are attached along curves parallel to the
gluing annulus core curves of M. All boundary components of the page covers and
spine annuli are necessarily attached in this way - there are no free boundary
components.

proof

% TODO

lemma (parabolic lifting criterion)

Let M be a book of I-bundles, and S immerse M be a pi1-injective map, where
S is a connected closed surface.  After placing S in minimal position as above,
S is a (QF) surface if and only if the following criterion holds. Let B be
a page in M, and C a spine in M. P cap B is a union of disjoint arcs and curves
in B. We have canonical covering maps S cap B to Si and S cap C to A2 by the
surface decomposition lemma. Let tildePS be the union of the preimages of P cap
B. % TODO finish statement here

proof

% TODO

\begin{lemma}\label{L:sc}

Let $S$ be a surface satisfying \eqref{E:qf}. Homotope $S$ to have minimal
intersection with each $A_i$, that is, so there are no ``bumps''.  Then for
each $M_i$, each component of $S \cap M_i$ is a finite-sheeted covering of the
core surface.  That is, given such a component $S' \cin M_i$, the map $S' \to
M_i = \Si_{1,1}\x I \to \Si_{1,1}\x{1/2}$ is homotopic to a finite-sheeted
covering map. Conversely, given any finite-sheeted covering $\widetilde{S} \to
\Si_{1,1}$, there exists a corresponding proper immersed $\pi_1$-injective
surface $S \cin \Si_{1,1}\x I$.

\end{lemma}
\begin{proof}

$S$ is compact, so every such component $S'$ is a compact surface with
boundary, properly immersed in $M_i$. Since $S$ is $\pi_1$-injective in $M$,
$S'$ must be $\pi_1$-injective in $M_i$. Otherwise, we'd have a nontrivial
element of $\pi_1S'$ which is trivial in $\pi_1M_i$, hence in $\pi_1M$, hence
in $\pi_1S$, contradicting the minimal position homotopy above. So the map
$\phi : S'\to\Si_{1,1}\x{1,2}$ is also $\pi_1$-injective, since $M_i$
deformation retracts to its core. Let $H = \phi_*(\pi_1S')$, and let
$\Si_{1,1}^H$ be the cover of $\Si_{1,1}$ associated to $H<\pi_1\Si_{1,1}$.
$\phi$ lifts to $\widetilde{\phi}\colon S'\to \Si_{1,1}^H$. This is a proper
map of compact surfaces which is an isomorphism on $\pi_1$.  By the
classification of surfaces, it must be homotopic (as a proper map) to
a homeomorphism. So $\phi$ is homotopic to a covering map. It must be
finite-sheeted as $S'$ is compact (by classification of surfaces again).

Conversely, given a finite-sheeted cover $\widetilde{S}\to \Si_{1,1}$, compose
with the embedding $\Si_{1,1} = \Si_{1,1}\x{1/2} \cin \Si_{1,1}\x I$. This is
proper and $\pi_1$-injective.  Perturb locally to obtain an immersion.

\end{proof}

\begin{lemma}

Let $M$ be a book of $I$-bundles, and $P$ a pared structure on $M$. $P$ cannot
contain any tori.  That is, $P$ consists entirely of annuli.

\end{lemma}
\begin{proof}

Since each page of $M$ has negative Euler characteristic, 

\end{proof}

