%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
\section{Introduction}
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%

Let $N$ be a complete hyperbolic 3-manifold. $N$ can be realized as the
quotient manifold of a Kleinian group $\Gamma=\pi_1N$. This paper is devoted to
the following general question:

\begin{prob}

Does $\pi_1N$ contains any quasi-Fuchsian surface subgroups?

\end{prob}

In this paper, we answer this question in the special case where $N$ is a book
of $I$-bundles. We tackle this problem topologically, representing $N$ with
a pared 3-manifold $(M,P)$.  The pared structure $P\cin\bd M$ specifies the
boundary locus corresponding to cusps of $N$. Finding a quasi-Fuchsian surface
subgroup of $\pi_1N$ boils down to asking whether we can find a closed immersed
$\pi_1$-injective surface in $M$ which avoids $P$ up to homotopy.  That is,
we're trying to choose a surface subgroup of $\pi_1M$ which does not contain
any of the peripherial subgroups associated to components of $P$. We prove full
results on which $(M,P)$ admit a surface subgroup in the book of $I$-bundles
case.

To motivate this choice of problem and special case to solve, we briefly
discuss the history of this problem and previous work on it. We begin with
a straightforward, purely topological question:

\begin{prob}

Which 3-manifold groups contain surface subgroups? Equivalently, which
3-manifolds contain closed $\pi_1$-injective surfaces?

\end{prob}

This problem arises quite directly when considering 3-manifold groups. The
first explicit answer was proposed by %TODO

in the Surface Subgroup Conjecture

There is some existing work on this problem. Cooper-Long-Reid \cite{CLR}
addressed the underlying topological problem, showing that a compact connected
irreducible 3-manifold with non-empty incompressible boundary  must contain an
essential closed surface, unless it's covered by a product $F\times I$.
However, this surface may contain accidental parabolics, that is, overlap with
the pared locus $P$. If this occurs it will not be quasifuchsian.

% FIXME something is wrong with Masters-Zhang citation / bib entry - I can only
% find their older paper (hyp knot complements) on mathscinet, not the full new
% one with link complements

In the closed case, there is the work of Kahn-Markovic \cite{KM}. They proved
that there always exists an immersed closed $\pi_1$-injective surface in any
closed hyperbolic 3-manifold.  Such a surface is necessarily quasifuchsian
because the surface is closed, so the pared structure is empty. Finally,
Masters-Zhang \cite{MZ} showed that every finite volume hyperbolic 3-manifold
with cusps contains a quasifuchsian surface subgroup. An alternate proof was
provided by Baker-Cooper \cite{BC}.

The remaining case is infinite volume hyperbolic 3-manifolds. So far we've only
addressed a particular example of this case --- books of $I$-bundles. We
conjecture that all books of $I$-bundles admit quasifuchsian surface subgroups,
except for a few obvious negative cases where the pared locus is too large. We
prove this in a few special cases, so far.

